### Title: Analysis of Factors Influencing Underpricing of Stocks in Initial Public Offerings on the Main Market of the Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW) between 2005 and 2022

* Frequently observed phenomenon in stock markets during the early stages of a company's stock listing is achieving a higher stock valuation compared to the offering price presented to investors in the initial public offering. In the literature, this phenomenon is referred to as underpricing. An in-depth review of all literature sources with quantitative analysis of factors influencing the underpricing on the debut day on the Main Market of the Warsaw Stock Exchange was conducted to find candidate exogenous variables influencing underpricing. Next, the effect-size econometric model was built in order to quantify the magnitude of the effect and provide insights into the significance of the relationships.

* The aim of this study was to determine which selected fundamental factors had a statistically significant impact on positive return on the debut day. Therefore, a binary logistic regression model was used for analysis, which is widely employed in econometrics to explain qualitative endogenous variables that can take values of 0 or 1. The logistic regression model is an example of a broad class of models known as Generalized Linear Models (GLM).

* The contribution of this work to the field of capital market theory lied in the quantitative analysis of factors influencing positive return on initial public offerings (IPOs) on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. According to the author's knowledge, this topic has not been previously addressed in the domestic literature - initial return rate has been modeled as a continuous variable, rather than a binary one Furthermore, the scope of analysis in previously published scholarly works on public offerings concludes with the year 2016. Therefore, the chosen timeframe from 2005 to 2022 will provide updated knowledge on the IPO market in Poland and verify the relevance of previous research findings.

* The research sample consisted of 320 initial public offerings (IPOs) on the Warsaw Stock Exchange's Main Market between 2005 and 2022. The sample was obtained through a two-step process: from the sample of all 448 IPOs that occurred during the aforementioned period, offerings that did not fall into the categories of public offerings of newly issued shares, public offerings of existing shares, or a combination of both were excluded. This resulted in a reduced number of public offerings, totaling 351. From the set of 351 initial public offerings, offerings with missing data for at least one exogenous variable were excluded. Consequently, the final number of public offerings subjected to analysis amounted to 320.

* The analysis included debuts from 2005 onward due to the unavailability of data on debuts prior to that year. The analysis concludes with the year 2022, as it is the last complete calendar year within the timeframe of preparing the master's thesis. The chosen analysis period thus encompasses both favorable and unfavorable market conditions, assuming that the likelihood of committing `selection bias` was negligibly small.

* Lastly, the results obtained from the binary multivariate logistic regression model were compared with the results obtained from the generalized estimated equation (GEE) model and decision tree classification model.

The structure of this repository:
* data - repository containing datasets.
* code - repository containing python scripts as well as jupyter notebooks for: data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis and modeling.